# Notebook Format for PDF Export

A format for Jupyter notebook assignments that will be graded manually using a
generated PDF, for example on Gradescope.

The following specification for annotating a notebook with which cells to export
has these characteristics:

1. Each page of the output contains one question cell, one response cell, and
   all output of that response cell.
2. The format is optimized for questions that can be answered in at most two pages.
3. The student response to a question will appear in a consistent location
   within the generated PDF.
3. Metadata are expressed within notebook cells.

This format can be generated by hand, but is designed to be generated
automatically from the [notebook format for assignment
authors](notebook-format.md).

## Questions

A question is a description markdown cell followed by a response cell. The
description cell should contain `<!-- EXPORT TO PDF -->`. This annotation will
ensure that both the annotated cell and following response cell are exported to
the same page of the PDF.

Optionally, a format restriction can be included in the export comment. The only format restriction currently supported is `image`. For a question with a required response image, the description cell should contain:

`<!-- EXPORT TO PDF format:image -->`

## Other

If a markdown cell in the notebook contains a comment of the form

`<!-- EXPECT 3 EXPORTED QUESTIONS -->`

then export will fail unless there are exactly 3 questions exported. Any
positive integer is allowed.



